---
layout: post
title: "[LeetCode] Serialize and Deserialize BST"
ref: leetcode-449
date: 2019-10-06 07:00:00
categories: LeetCode
lang: en
---

## Contents
- [Problem](#problem)
- [Solution](#solution)
- [Explanation](#explain)
- [Related Posts](#related)

<hr />
<br />

## Problem <a id="problem"></a>

[449. Serialize and Deserialize BST](https://leetcode.com/problems/serialize-and-deserialize-bst/)

Serialization is the process of converting a data structure or object into a sequence of bits so that it can be stored in a file or memory buffer, 
or transmitted across a network connection link to be reconstructed later in the same or another computer environment.

Design an algorithm to serialize and deserialize a **binary search tree**. 
There is no restriction on how your serialization/deserialization algorithm should work. 
You just need to ensure that a binary search tree can be serialized to a string and this string can be deserialized to the original tree structure.

**The encoded string should be as compact as possible.**

**Note:** Do not use class member/global/static variables to store states. Your serialize and deserialize algorithms should be stateless.

<br />

## Solution <a id="solution"></a>

```ruby
def serialize(root)
    if root == nil
        return 'X'
    end
    
    left = serialize(root.left)
    right = serialize(root.right)
    
    return "#{root.val} #{left} #{right}"
end

def deserialize(data)
    tokens = data.split(' ')
    deserialize_helper tokens
end

def deserialize_helper(data)
    curr = data.shift
    
    if curr == 'X'
        return nil
    end
    
    root = TreeNode.new(curr)
    root.left = deserialize_helper(data)
    root.right = deserialize_helper(data)
    
    return root
end
```

<br>

## Explanation <a id="explain"></a>

### Serialize

I used preorder traversal to serialize and deserialze bst.

Line `#6-7` recursively call its function to serialize `root`'s left and right child.
Once these nodes become `nil`, return the encoded string (`'X'`) that later you can use to decode (`#2-4`).
And finally return the full encoded string (`#9`).

{% highlight ruby linenos %}
def serialize(root)
    if root == nil
        return 'X'
    end
    
    left = serialize(root.left)
    right = serialize(root.right)
    
    return "#{root.val} #{left} #{right}"
end
{% endhighlight %}

### Deserialize

My `data` is in a string format. We need to separate each encoded nodes (`#2`) and pass it on to the helper function I made (`#3`).

{% highlight ruby linenos %}
def deserialize(data)
    tokens = data.split(' ')
    deserialize_helper tokens
end
{% endhighlight %}

<br>

`data.shift` pops the front element and removes it from the array (`#1`).

We used the character `X` to represent the `nil` node. So when the current value is `X` we simply return `nil` (`#4-6`).
Otherwise, we create a new node with the value received from the `data` and repeat the process recursively to find its left and right node (`#8-10`).

When everything is done, we return the root.

{% highlight ruby linenos %}
def deserialize_helper(data)
    curr = data.shift
    
    if curr == 'X'
        return nil
    end
    
    root = TreeNode.new(curr)
    root.left = deserialize_helper(data)
    root.right = deserialize_helper(data)
    
    return root
{% endhighlight %}

Time complexity is **O(n)** because we visit every nodes during the serialization.<br>
Space complexity is also **O(n)** because of the stack frame added during the recursion procedure.

<br>

## Related Posts <a id="related"></a>
- [Daily Coding Problem #3](/dcp/2019/09/20/en-dcp-3.html)
