---
layout: post
title: "HTTP"
ref: til-20200601
date: 2020-06-01 05:30:00 +0900
categories: TIL
lang: en
---

## HTTP Connections
A connection must be established between the client and server in order to communicate.
HTTP uses the TCP transport protocol to make this connection and by default, it uses TCP port 80.
TCP stream is broken into IP packets, and it ensures that those packets **always arrive in the correct order w/o fail**.
HTTP is an application layer protocol over TCP, which is over IP.

HTTPS is a secure version of HTTP that has an additional layer between HTTP and TCP called **SSL** (Secure Sockets Layer) or **TLS** (Transport Layer Security). HTTPS communicates over **port 443** by default.
```
http(80):       https(443):

   HTTP              HTTP
----------     ---------------
   TCP            SSL or TLS
----------     ---------------
    IP               TCP
               ---------------
                      IP
```

HTTP connection is identified by
- `<source-IP, source-port>` and
- `<destination-IP, destination-port>` tuple

On a client, an HTTP application is identified by
- `<IP, port>` tuple

The process of establishing a connection btwn two endpoints (routes):
1. DNS lookup (resolve IP addr from host name via DNS)
2. Connect (establish a connection with the server)
3. Request (send a request)
4. Process (wait for a response)
5. Response (connection successful)
6. Close connection

In HTTP/1.0, all connections were closed after a single transaction.
So if a client requests for three separate images from the same serever, it needs to go through all the process above,
which results in sub-optimal user experience due to network delays.

To reduce connection-establishment delays, HTTP/1.1 uses **persistent connections**,
long-lived connections that stay open until the client closes them, as default.
If a client wants to make a single transaction, it requires them to set the `Connection: close` request header,
which tells the server to close the connection after sending the response.

<div class="divider"></div>

## Reference
- [Tutsplus - HTTP: The Protocol Every Web Dev Must Know pt. 2](https://code.tutsplus.com/tutorials/http-the-protocol-every-web-developer-must-know-part-2--net-31155)

